TROUBLESHOOTING OF COMPUTER SYSTEMS
 FINAL EXAM
CHARINA L. SARIGUMBA
BS CpE 4A

	The subject CpE 421, Troubleshooting of Computer Systems is one of the most essential subject in the Computer Engineering course curriculum. Since our early years of this course, we, the computer engineering students of Bohol Island State University (BISU), have our brains carved with the knowledge that programming is the core of the Computer Engineering course, but is it not ironic that you are a great programmer but doesn’t know the basic fixes of common computer errors? It is ironic that we are taught how to program yet we know nothing about how to fix the issues we have in our own personal computers. Therefore the subject Troubleshooting of Computer Systems is a subject that completes the skills of a computer engineer, not just a computer engineer but a good computer engineer. As aspiring computer engineers, we must learn how to troubleshoot a computer system to be worthy of the title Computer Engineer. 
	The subject, Troubleshooting of Computer Systems is one of the subjects that I am looking forward to learn about. Why? First of all, I am experiencing a lot of troubles with my own personal computer since I bought it when I was in my second year of my computer engineering course. I have spent quite an amount of money for the services of computer technicians. As I was contemplating about how much of my allowance was put into waste because of my faulty personal computer, an idea popped-up in my head, “I am a computer engineering student, why don’t I try to fix it myself?” Since then I have been browsing through the internet for possible solutions to these problems I have with my personal computer but up until now I haven’t still fixed it. Another reason why I am interested in this subject is that there are a lot of people who would ask me about what to do if their computers are behaving like this, or that their files were corrupted and they need help in fixing it. At first, it was really annoying for me because their perception of my chosen course is “just-someone-that-fixes-computers” but I have realized that I don’t have the right to be called a computer engineering student if I don’t even know how to fix such simple problems. It also felt great that they are asking me those questions, therefore they are expecting that I can be of help to them regarding their problem. Therefore I was inspired to learn about computer systems troubleshooting. 
Our first lessons are mostly reporting. The reporting bombarded us with too much theoretical information which I found difficult to absorb without applying them. I must admit that I have forgotten most of the lessons, however I was able to grasp some of the topics that were relevant for me. If I am to sum up everything that I have learned from this subject, I will not be able to specify all of it because it was quite a lot to remember but I will try to recall all I can. One of the many things that I have learned in this subject is that not necessarily all troubles requires thorough fixes. Some of this fixes can be just simply ensuring that the cables are properly attached or that they are in the right places, or simply transferring a component to another slot, or simply ensuring that the type of component that we are using is compatible with the system. I have realized that simple human errors in mounting the components can contribute to a huge damage to our system, but can also be easily fixed if we are aware of what are the possible causes of such errors. I also have realized the importance of keeping our computer systems clean to avoid troubles that are caused by dirt, or dust build-ups. These learning have helped me prevent my own personal computer from having further issues. 
Another thing that I have learned in this subject is how to take care of the computer system to avoid having errors and troubles. This must be the most important thing that I have learned in this subject because I believe that “prevention is better than cure”, therefore we can save ourselves from panicking over some errors that could have been avoided if we were knowledgeable about how to prevent our computers from having troubles. We would not have something to fix if we will take care of our system properly. This is just a summary of everything that I have learned over the duration of the semester in this subject because if I would enumerate all of it, then I’m afraid this essay will empty my vocabulary. 
If I am to give suggestions for the improvement of the subject, I would suggest that it will be much more effective for me, if the students were able to apply every new theory or lesson reported on an actual computer before proceeding to another, rather than continuously introducing new lessons every meeting. The tendency is, if the students will just have to read or listen to the reporter about how to fix a certain trouble, the students will have a hard time absorbing all those new information because they were not experiencing it first-hand. But I know that we don’t have enough facilities to cater every single student, so maybe a demonstration by the reporter will do.
The subject was very student-friendly as it has never added to our academic burden, therefore I am grateful that we had the honour of having the two great computer engineers, Engr. Max Angelo Perin and Engr. Ralph Vincent Galao as our instructors. I know that they both have a lot of plans for this subject, such as the plan of taking an NCII examination, and the installation of Linux operating systems, but it was quite saddening that time was not a privilege. Despite the limit of time, both instructors have given us lessons, not just lessons on how to fix faulty computer systems but also lessons in life that we can live-by. 
 
